The snmpiostat package includes an SNMP agent (snmpiostatagent) that
should be installed on hosts where you wish to monitor iostat data via SNMP,
and a client (snmpiostat) that queries the agent and displays the information
similar to the iostat program.

For both programs first run configure:

  ./configure

Building And Installing The Agent

  To build the agent, first decide where within your MIBs you wish to place
  the snmpiostat OIDs.  By default this package uses SNMPv2-SMI::experimental.2
  (.1.3.6.1.3.2).  If you change this you will need to change baseoid in the
  file snmpiostat.conf (installed in /usr/local/etc by default by the installation
  procedure that follows).  Also if you change the default baseoid, and plan to
  add the MIB used by this package (defined in DEVIOSTAT.MIB) to your SNMP management
  tools, then you will need to update DEVIOSTAT.MIB as well, specifically the line
  that defines devIOStatMIB as "experimental 2":

    devIOStatMIB MODULE-IDENTITY
	LAST-UPDATED	"201505260000Z"
	ORGANIZATION	"Clemson University"
	CONTACT-INFO	"email:	rschwa2@clemson.edu"
	DESCRIPTION		"Device IO data."
	REVISION		"201505260000Z"
	DESCRIPTION		"Initial release."
	::= { experimental 2 }

  To compile the agent:

    make snmpiostatagent

  To install the agent:

    make install-agent

  Once the agent is installed you must configure snmpd to pass the
  baseoid to this module.  Add a line to /etc/snmp/snmpd.conf that looks
  like this:

    pass_persist	.1.3.6.1.3.2	/usr/local/sbin/snmpiostatagent

  snmpiostatagent call also be run in "pass" mode (as opposed to
  pass_persist) but this is less efficient since snmpd will have to
  start up a new process for every request.  After adding this
  line restart snmpd:

    service snmpd restart

  You can test the agent is working properly with UCD's net-snmp program
  snmpwalk(1), eg

    snmpwalk localhost .1.3.6.1.3.2

  If you've added DEVIOSTAT.MIB to the MIBs that snmpwalk knows about you
  should see lines that look like this:

    DEVIOSTAT-MIB::devIOStatIndex.1 = INTEGER: 1
    DEVIOSTAT-MIB::devIOStatIndex.2 = INTEGER: 2
    DEVIOSTAT-MIB::devIOStatIndex.3 = INTEGER: 3
    ...

  If you haven't added DEVIOSTAT.MIB to your MIBs you should see:

    SNMPv2-SMI::experimental.2.1.1.1.1 = INTEGER: 1
    SNMPv2-SMI::experimental.2.1.1.1.2 = INTEGER: 2
    SNMPv2-SMI::experimental.2.1.1.1.3 = INTEGER: 3

Building And Installing The Client

  The client snmpiostat depends on UCD's net-snmp developer package.  Some
  installations already have the applications (eg snmpwalk, snmpget,
  etc) but not the developer files (header files and possibly
  libraries).  When you run configure if it finds the header files and
  libraries you will see lines like this:

    checking net-snmp/net-snmp-config.h usability... yes
    checking net-snmp/net-snmp-config.h presence... yes
    checking for net-snmp/net-snmp-config.h... yes
    checking for snmp_parse_args in -lnetsnmp... yes

  If any of these are "no" then you either need to run configuure with
  the --with-netsnmp=DIR option, where DIR is the top level dir where
  the net-snmp development package is installed, or you'll need to
  install the net-snmp devloper package.  The sources can be found
  here:

    http://www.net-snmp.org/download.html

  There may also be pre-built packages available for your OS, eg on Ubuntu
  14.04 it's called libsnmp-dev and can be installed with:

    sudo apt-get update
    sudo apt-get install libsnmp-dev

  Once configure is able to find the net-snmp developer files, compile
  snmpiostat with:

    make snmpiostat

  And install with:

    make install-client

  Note the snmpiostat.conf files installed in this step should have the same
  baseoid as configured when installing snmpiostatagent (it can be the same
  file, both snmpiostat and snmpiostatagent ignore config options that aren't
  relevant to themselves).

  To run snmpiostat, assuming the agent is installed on localhost:

    snmpiostat localhost

  See the man page for options.  Note snmpiostat supports all the standard
  net-snmp command line options (see snmpcmd(1)) plus -Cp and -Cx (similar
  to iostat -p and -x options).
